# TPI
Python code for test particle insertion


SCRIPTS
There are three python scripts to be run in order. The scripts as written are for 2D but are easy generalisable to 3D.

1. either 'DH_gr_1st_script_periodic.py' or 'DH_gr_1st_script_nonperiodic.py', depending on whether your data has periodic or nonperiodic boundary conditions
2. 'matrices_2nd_script_periodic.py'. This has a few alternative lines commented out for use with nonperiodic boundary conditions
3. 'inversion_3rd_script_periodic.py'. This script is the same regardless of whether periodic or nonperiodic boundary conditions are used

In addition, there is a
4. 'Parameters.py' file, in the same folder as the other scripts, containing parameters that are used in the scripts. There is an alternative line commented out, to give gr_file a different name when using nonperiodic boundary conditions


INPUTS
4 input files are required. Examples are given for each. The example data were generated by a Monte Carlo simulation of a 2D Lennard-Jones fluid truncated at r = 5*sigma, kT/epsilon = 1, sigma = 1, rho = 0.4, boxsize = 50x50.

1. 'Positions.hdf' - a hdf file containing x- and y- coordinates of each particle, in each snapshot. The snapshots were appended in turn to this file. These coordinates could be obtained from simulation or experiment.
2. 'newsnapshotstarts.npy' - a npy file containing a list of the indices of the rows of 'Positions.hdf' where a new snapshot begins.
3. 'xlength.npy' - the length in the x-direction of your frame, stored in a npy file
4. 'ylength.npy' - the length in the y-direction of your frame, stored in a npy file
